Cookbook
========

This files describes the two data frames produced by run_analysys.R

Origin
-------------------

The Original data was obtainned from this link [https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip] and is descibed here [http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones]

The generated data frames
-------------------

Two data frames are generated by run_analysys.R 
*dataSet - Data Set containning tidy data information
*meanDataSet - Data set containning the means of the dataSet grouped by Activity and subject

The description of the variables of this datasets are the following

- activity - Activity that the subject was performing
- subject - Subject identification

The orther measures as constructed as folowed
The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. 
These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, f	BodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

Finnaly mean and std represents 
mean(): Mean value
std(): Standard deviation

as so:

- tBodyAcc.mean...X represents time of the body linear accelerometer on the X axis and so on ...
the other variables can be interpreted in the same manner are
- tBodyAcc.mean...X
- tBodyAcc.mean...Y
- tBodyAcc.mean...Z
- tBodyAcc.std...X                    
- tBodyAcc.std...Y
- tBodyAcc.std...Z
- tGravityAcc.mean...X
- tGravityAcc.mean...Y
- tGravityAcc.mean...Z
- tGravityAcc.std...X
- tGravityAcc.std...Y
- tGravityAcc.std...Z
- tBodyAccJerk.mean...X
- tBodyAccJerk.mean...Y
- tBodyAccJerk.mean...Z
- tBodyAccJerk.std...X
- tBodyAccJerk.std...Y
- tBodyAccJerk.std...Z
- tBodyGyro.mean...X
- tBodyGyro.mean...Y
- tBodyGyro.mean...Z
- tBodyGyro.std...X
- tBodyGyro.std...Y
- tBodyGyro.std...Z
- tBodyGyroJerk.mean...X
- tBodyGyroJerk.mean...Y
- tBodyGyroJerk.mean...Z
- tBodyGyroJerk.std...X
- tBodyGyroJerk.std...Y
- tBodyGyroJerk.std...Z
- tBodyAccMag.mean..
- tBodyAccMag.std..
- tGravityAccMag.mean..
- tGravityAccMag.std..
- tBodyAccJerkMag.mean..
- tBodyAccJerkMag.std..
- tBodyGyroMag.mean..
- tBodyGyroMag.std..
- tBodyGyroJerkMag.mean..
- tBodyGyroJerkMag.std..
- fBodyAcc.mean...X
- fBodyAcc.mean...Y
- fBodyAcc.mean...Z
- vfBodyAcc.std...X
- fBodyAcc.std...Y
- fBodyAcc.std...Z
- fBodyAccJerk.mean...X
- fBodyAccJerk.mean...Y
- fBodyAccJerk.mean...Z
- fBodyAccJerk.std...X
- fBodyAccJerk.std...Y
- fBodyAccJerk.std...Z
- fBodyGyro.mean...X
- fBodyGyro.mean...Y
- fBodyGyro.mean...Z
- fBodyGyro.std...X
- fBodyGyro.std...Y
- fBodyGyro.std...Z
- fBodyAccMag.mean..
- fBodyAccMag.std..
- fBodyAccMag.meanFreq..
- fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.mean..
- fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.std..
- fBodyBodyGyroMag.mean..
- fBodyBodyGyroMag.std..
- fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.mean..
- fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.std..
- angle.tBodyAccMean.gravity.
- angle.tBodyAccJerkMean..gravityMean.
- angle.tBodyGyroMean.gravityMean.    
- angle.tBodyGyroJerkMean.gravityMean.
- angle.X.gravityMean.
- angle.Y.gravityMean.
- angle.Z.gravityMean.              